README.md, before:

# reactjs.org

This repo contains the source code and documentation powering [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/).

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

1. Git
1. Node: install version 8.4 or greater
1. Yarn: See [Yarn website for installation instructions](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/)
1. A fork of the repo (for any contributions)
1. A clone of the [reactjs.org repo](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org) on your local machine

### Installation

1. `cd reactjs.org` to go into the project root
1. `yarn` to install the website's npm dependencies

### Running locally

1. `yarn dev` to start the hot-reloading development server (powered by [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org))
1. `open http://localhost:8000` to open the site in your favorite browser

## Contributing

### Create a branch

1. `git checkout master` from any folder in your local `reactjs.org` repository
1. `git pull origin master` to ensure you have the latest main code
1. `git checkout -b the-name-of-my-branch` (replacing `the-name-of-my-branch` with a suitable name) to create a branch

### Make the change

1. Follow the "Running locally" instructions
1. Save the files and check in the browser
  1. Changes to React components in `src` will hot-reload
  1. Changes to markdown files in `content` will hot-reload
  1. If working with plugins, you may need to remove the `.cache` directory and restart the server

### Test the change

1. If possible, test any visual changes in all latest versions of common browsers, on both desktop and mobile.
1. Run `yarn check-all` from the project root. (This will run Prettier, ESLint, and Flow.)

### Push it

1. `git add -A && git commit -m "My message"` (replacing `My message` with a commit message, such as `Fixed header logo on Android`) to stage and commit your changes
1. `git push my-fork-name the-name-of-my-branch`
1. Go to the [reactjs.org repo](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org) and you should see recently pushed branches.
1. Follow GitHub's instructions.
1. If possible, include screenshots of visual changes. A Netlify build will also be automatically created once you make your PR so other people can see your change.

## Translation

If you are interesting in translating `reactjs.org`, please join the Crowdin.

* [Crowdin - React](https://crowdin.com/project/react)

## Troubleshooting

- `yarn reset` to clear the local cache

Commit message:

Add contributing guidelines reference to readme (#753)
* Add contributing guidelines reference to readme

* Tweak

README.md, after:

# reactjs.org

This repo contains the source code and documentation powering [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/).

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

1. Git
1. Node: install version 8.4 or greater
1. Yarn: See [Yarn website for installation instructions](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/)
1. A fork of the repo (for any contributions)
1. A clone of the [reactjs.org repo](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org) on your local machine

### Installation

1. `cd reactjs.org` to go into the project root
1. `yarn` to install the website's npm dependencies

### Running locally

1. `yarn dev` to start the hot-reloading development server (powered by [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org))
1. `open http://localhost:8000` to open the site in your favorite browser

## Contributing

### Guidelines

The documentation is divided into several sections with a different tone and purpose. If you plan to write more than a few sentences, you might find it helpful to get familiar with the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#guidelines-for-text) for the appropriate sections.

### Create a branch

1. `git checkout master` from any folder in your local `reactjs.org` repository
1. `git pull origin master` to ensure you have the latest main code
1. `git checkout -b the-name-of-my-branch` (replacing `the-name-of-my-branch` with a suitable name) to create a branch

### Make the change

1. Follow the "Running locally" instructions
1. Save the files and check in the browser
  1. Changes to React components in `src` will hot-reload
  1. Changes to markdown files in `content` will hot-reload
  1. If working with plugins, you may need to remove the `.cache` directory and restart the server

### Test the change

1. If possible, test any visual changes in all latest versions of common browsers, on both desktop and mobile.
1. Run `yarn check-all` from the project root. (This will run Prettier, ESLint, and Flow.)

### Push it

1. `git add -A && git commit -m "My message"` (replacing `My message` with a commit message, such as `Fixed header logo on Android`) to stage and commit your changes
1. `git push my-fork-name the-name-of-my-branch`
1. Go to the [reactjs.org repo](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org) and you should see recently pushed branches.
1. Follow GitHub's instructions.
1. If possible, include screenshots of visual changes. A Netlify build will also be automatically created once you make your PR so other people can see your change.

## Translation

If you are interesting in translating `reactjs.org`, please join the Crowdin.

* [Crowdin - React](https://crowdin.com/project/react)

## Troubleshooting

- `yarn reset` to clear the local cache
