content/community/courses.md, before:

---
id: courses
title: Courses
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/courses.html
---

## Free Courses

- [Codecademy: React 101](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) - Codecademy's introductory course for React.

- [Egghead.io: Start Learning React](https://egghead.io/courses/start-learning-react) - This series will explore the basic fundamentals of React to get you started.

- [React Armory: Learn React by Itself](https://reactarmory.com/guides/learn-react-by-itself) - With React Armory, you can learn React without the buzzwords.

- [The Road to Learn React](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-learn-react/) - Build a real world application in plain React without complicated tooling.

- [React Training: React Patterns](https://reacttraining.com/patterns/) - Free lectures from React Training's "Advanced React.js" course.

## Paid Courses

- [Egghead.io](https://egghead.io/browse/frameworks/react) - Short instructional videos on React and many other topics.

- [Frontend Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/) - Video courses on React and other frontend frameworks.

- [Fullstack React](https://www.fullstackreact.com/) - The up-to-date, in-depth, complete guide to React and friends.

- [Pure React](https://daveceddia.com/pure-react/) - A step-by-step guide to mastering React.

- [React for Beginners](https://reactforbeginners.com/) - Learn React in just a couple of afternoons.

- [React Training: Advanced React.js](https://courses.reacttraining.com/p/advanced-react) - Take your React skills to the next level.

- [Tyler McGinnis](https://tylermcginnis.com/courses) - Tyler McGinnis provides access to his courses for a monthly fee. Courses include "React Fundamentals" and "Universal React".

Commit message:

Add egghead.io course to free courses

content/community/courses.md, after:

---
id: courses
title: Courses
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/courses.html
---

## Free Courses

- [Codecademy: React 101](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) - Codecademy's introductory course for React.

- [Egghead.io: Start Learning React](https://egghead.io/courses/start-learning-react) - This series will explore the basic fundamentals of React to get you started.

- [React Armory: Learn React by Itself](https://reactarmory.com/guides/learn-react-by-itself) - With React Armory, you can learn React without the buzzwords.

- [The Road to Learn React](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-learn-react/) - Build a real world application in plain React without complicated tooling.

- [React Training: React Patterns](https://reacttraining.com/patterns/) - Free lectures from React Training's "Advanced React.js" course.

- [The Beginner's Guide to ReactJS](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-reactjs?utm_term=react) - Free course for React newbies and those looking to get a better understanding of React fundamentals.

## Paid Courses

- [Egghead.io](https://egghead.io/browse/frameworks/react) - Short instructional videos on React and many other topics.

- [Frontend Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/) - Video courses on React and other frontend frameworks.

- [Fullstack React](https://www.fullstackreact.com/) - The up-to-date, in-depth, complete guide to React and friends.

- [Pure React](https://daveceddia.com/pure-react/) - A step-by-step guide to mastering React.

- [React for Beginners](https://reactforbeginners.com/) - Learn React in just a couple of afternoons.

- [React Training: Advanced React.js](https://courses.reacttraining.com/p/advanced-react) - Take your React skills to the next level.

- [Tyler McGinnis](https://tylermcginnis.com/courses) - Tyler McGinnis provides access to his courses for a monthly fee. Courses include "React Fundamentals" and "Universal React".
