content/blog/2018-02-07-update-on-async-rendering.md, before:

---
title: Update on Async Rendering
author: [bvaughn, gaearon]
---

For the past few months, the React team has been experimenting with [asynchronous rendering](/blog/2017/09/26/react-v16.0.html#new-core-architecture), and we are very excited about the new features it enables.

Along the way, our research has shown that some of our component lifecycles tend to encourage unsafe coding practices. They are:

* `componentWillMount`
* `componentWillReceiveProps`
* `componentWillUpdate`

These lifecycle methods have often been misunderstood and subtly misused; furthermore, we anticipate that these potential problems may be more prominent with async rendering. Because of this, we are adding an "UNSAFE_" prefix to these lifecycles in a future release. React [follows semantic versioning](/blog/2016/02/19/new-versioning-scheme.html), so the migration path will be gradual:

* **16.3**: Introduce aliases for the unsafe lifecycles, `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, `UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps`, and `UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will work in this release.)
* **16.4**: Enable deprecation warning for `componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will work in this release.)
* **17.0**: Remove `componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate` . (Only the new "UNSAFE_" lifecycle names will work in this release.)

In this post, we will explore some of the potential capabilities of async rendering, and we'll outline a migration plan for components that rely on these legacy lifecycles.

## What can asynchronous rendering do?

#### With every new version, our goal is to make it easier for developers using React to build great user experiences

We have been fine-tuning the performance of React with every new release. However, despite what synthetic benchmarks say, we've found that the bottleneck in real-world apps is generally not React itself, but the application code that uses it. In order to unlock the next wave of performance optimizations and new features, we need React to be smarter about when to re-render components and flush updates to the screen.

> **Note**
>
> React already has some optimizations in this regard. For example, React batches state updates so that if you call `setState` multiple times in quick succession, it only renders once.

We found that asynchronous rendering can help in several ways. For example:

1. As users navigate within an app, newly displayed components often have asynchronous dependencies (including data, images, and code splitting). This leads to a lot of boilerplate code managing data fetching and displaying the loading states. It can also lead to a "cascade of spinners" as the data loads, causing DOM reflows and janky user experience. We'd like to make it easier for product developers to express asynchronous dependencies and to wait to show a component until all of its data has been loaded. React could keep the old UI "alive" and interactive for a certain period while the updated UI is not ready yet, and provide a declarative way to show a loading indicator if it takes more than a second.
2. Fast updates within a short timeframe often cause jank because React processes each update individually. We'd like to automatically "combine" updates within a few hundred milliseconds when possible so that there is less re-rendering.
3. Some updates are inherently less important than others. For example, if you're writing a [live-updating search filter input](https://zeit.co/blog/domains-search-web#asynchronous-rendering), it is essential that the input is updated immediately (within a few milliseconds). Re-rendering the result list can be done later, and should not block the thread or cause stutter when typing. It would be nice if React had a way to mark the latter updates as having a lower priority. (Note that even debouncing the input doesn't help because if the rendering is synchronous (like in React today)—a keystroke can't interrupt the rendering once it has started. Asynchronous rendering solves this by splitting rendering into small chunks that can be paused and later resumed.)
4. For UI elements like hidden popups and tabs, we'd like to be able to start pre-rendering their content when the browser isn't busy. This way, they can appear instantaneously in response to a later user interaction. However, we'd like to do this only [when the browser is idle](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/08/using-requestidlecallback) to avoid slowing down other parts of the page.

Of course, it's possible to implement some of these features today, but it's difficult. We hope to make them effortless by building them into React itself. By replacing problematic lifecycles with safer alternatives, we also hope to make it simple to write async-safe React components.

In the next section, we'll look at how to update your existing components to prepare for the upcoming lifecycle changes.

## Updating class components

#### If you're an application developer, **you don't have to do anything about the legacy methods yet**. The primary purpose of the upcoming version 16.3 is to enable open source project maintainers to update their libraries in advance of any deprecation warnings. Those warnings will be enabled with the next minor release, version 16.4.

However, if you'd like to start using the new component API (or if you're a maintainer looking to update your library in advance) here are a few examples that we hope will help you to start thinking about components a bit differently. Over time, we plan to add additional "recipes" to our documentation that show how to perform common tasks in a way that avoids the problematic lifecycles.

---

Before we begin, here's a quick reminder of the lifecyle changes in version 16.3:
* We are adding the following lifecycle aliases: `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, `UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps`, and `UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will be supported.)
* We are introducinc a new, static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`:

```js
static getDerivedStateFromProps(
  nextProps: Props,
  prevState: State
): $Shape<State> | null
```

This new lifecycle is invoked after a component is instantiated and when it receives new props. It should return an object to update `state`, or `null` to indicate that the new `props` do not require any `state` updates.

---

Now let's take a look at some examples.

### Initializing state

This example shows a component with `setState` calls inside of `componentWillMount`:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/initializing-state-before.js`

The simplest refactor for this type of component is to move state initialization to the constructor or to a property initializer, like so:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/initializing-state-after.js`

### Fetching external data

Here is an example of a component that uses `componentWillMount` to fetch external data:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/fetching-external-data-before.js`

The above code is problematic for both server rendering (where the external data won't be used) and the upcoming async rendering mode (where the request might be initiated multiple times).

The recommended upgrade path for most use cases is to move data-fetching into `componentDidMount`:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/fetching-external-data-after.js`

There is a common misconception that fetching in `componentWillMount` lets you avoid the first empty rendering state. In practice this was never true because React has always executed `render` immediately after `componentWillMount`. If the data is not available by the time `componentWillMount` fires, the first `render` will still show a loading state regardless of where you initiate the fetch. This is why moving the fetch to `componentDidMount` has no perceptible effect in the vast majority of cases.

> Note:
>
> Some advanced use-cases (e.g. libraries like Relay) may want to experiment with eagerly prefetching async data. An example of how this can be done is available [here](https://gist.github.com/bvaughn/89700e525ff423a75ffb63b1b1e30a8f).

### Adding event listeners (or subscriptions)

Here is an example of a component that subscribes to an external event dispatcher when mounting:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/adding-event-listeners-before.js`

Unfortunately, this can cause memory leaks for server rendering (where `componentWillUnmount` will never be called) and async rendering (where rendering might be interrupted before it completes, causing `componentWillUnmount` not to be called).

People often assume that `componentWillMount` and `componentWillUnmount` are always paired, but that is not guaranteed. Only once `componentDidMount` has been called does React guarantee that `componentWillUnmount` will later be called for clean up.

For this reason, the recommended way to add listeners/subscriptions is to use the `componentDidMount` lifecycle:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/adding-event-listeners-after.js`

> **Note**:
>
> Although the pattern above is slightly more verbose, it has an added benefit of deferring the subscription creation until after the component has rendered, reducing the amount of time in the critical render path. In the near future, React may include more tools to reduce code complexity for data fetching cases like this.

### Updating subscriptions when `props` change

(This is a continuation of [the example above](#adding-event-listeners-or-subscriptions).)

You may also need to update subscriptions based on changes in `props`. In this case, you should also wait until `componentDidUpdate` before _removing_ a subscription. In the event that a render is cancelled before being committed, this will prevent us from unsubscribing prematurely.

However, waiting to unsubscribe means that we will need to be careful about how we handle events that are dispatched in between `getDerivedStateFromProps` and `componentDidUpdate` so that we don't put stale values into the `state`. To do this, we should use the callback form of `setState` and compare the event dispatcher to the one currently in `state`.

Here is a example:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-subscriptions-when-props-change-after.js`

### Updating `state` based on `props`

Here is an example of a component that uses the legacy `componentWillReceiveProps` lifecycle to update `state` based on new `props` values:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-state-from-props-before.js`

Although the above code is not problematic in itself, the `componentWillReceiveProps` lifecycle is often mis-used in ways that _do_ present problems. Because of this, the method has been deprecated.

As of version 16.3, the recommended way to update `state` in response to `props` changes is with the new `static getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle. (That lifecycle is called when a component is created and each time it receives new props.):
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-state-from-props-after.js`

> Note:
>
> The [`react-lifecycles-compat`](https://github.com/reactjs/react-lifecycles-compat) polyfill enables this new lifecycle to be used with older versions of React as well. [Learn more about how to use it below.](http://localhost:8000/blog/2018/02/07/update-on-async-rendering.html#open-source-project-maintainers)

### Invoking external callbacks

Here is an example of a component that calls an external function when its internal state changes:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/invoking-external-callbacks-before.js`

Sometimes people use `componentWillUpdate` out of a misplaced fear that by the time `componentDidUpdate` fires, it is "too late" to update the state of other components. This is not the case. React ensures that any `setState` calls that happen during `componentDidMount` and `componentDidUpdate` are flushed before the user sees the updated UI. In general, it is better to avoid cascading updates like this, but in some cases they are necessary (for example, if you need to position a tooltip after measuring the rendered DOM element).

Either way, it is unsafe to use `componentWillUpdate` for this purpose in async mode, because the external callback might get called multiple times for a single update. Instead, the `componentDidUpdate` lifecycle should be used since it is guaranteed to be invoked only once per update:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/invoking-external-callbacks-after.js`

### Updating external data when `props` change

Here is an example of a component that fetches external data based on `props` values:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-external-data-when-props-change-before.js`

The recommended upgrade path for this component is to move data-updates into `componentDidUpdate`. You can also use the new `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle to clear stale data before rendering the new props:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-external-data-when-props-change-after.js`

> **Note**
>
> If you're using an HTTP library that supports cancellation, like [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios), then it's simple to cancel an in-progress request when unmounting. For native Promises, you can use an approach like [the one shown here](https://gist.github.com/bvaughn/982ab689a41097237f6e9860db7ca8d6).

## Other scenarios

While we tried to cover the most common use cases in this post, we recognize that we might have missed some of them. If you are using `componentWillMount`, `componentWillUpdate`, or `componentWillReceiveProps` in ways that aren't covered by this blog post, and aren't sure how to migrate off these legacy lifecycles, please [file a new issue against our documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org/issues/new) with your code examples and as much background information as you can provide. We will update this document with new alternative patterns as they come up.

## Open source project maintainers

Open source maintainers might be wondering what these changes mean for shared components. If you implement the above suggestions, what happens with components that depend on the new static `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle? Do you also have to release a new major version and drop compatibility for React 16.2 and older?

Fortunately, you do not!

In support of version 16.3, we've also created a new NPM package, [`react-lifecycles-compat`](https://github.com/reactjs/react-lifecycles-compat). This package polyfills components so that the new `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle will also work with older versions of React (0.14.9+).

To use this polyfill, first add it as a dependency to your library:

```bash
# Yarn
yarn add react-lifecycles-compat

# NPM
npm install react-lifecycles-compat --save
```

Next, update your components to use the new static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`, as described above.

Lastly, use the polyfill to make your component backwards compatible with older versions of React:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/using-react-lifecycles-compat.js`

Commit message:

Moved updating-subscription example into an external Gist with a note

content/blog/2018-02-07-update-on-async-rendering.md, after:

---
title: Update on Async Rendering
author: [bvaughn, gaearon]
---

For the past few months, the React team has been experimenting with [asynchronous rendering](/blog/2017/09/26/react-v16.0.html#new-core-architecture), and we are very excited about the new features it enables.

Along the way, our research has shown that some of our component lifecycles tend to encourage unsafe coding practices. They are:

* `componentWillMount`
* `componentWillReceiveProps`
* `componentWillUpdate`

These lifecycle methods have often been misunderstood and subtly misused; furthermore, we anticipate that these potential problems may be more prominent with async rendering. Because of this, we are adding an "UNSAFE_" prefix to these lifecycles in a future release. React [follows semantic versioning](/blog/2016/02/19/new-versioning-scheme.html), so the migration path will be gradual:

* **16.3**: Introduce aliases for the unsafe lifecycles, `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, `UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps`, and `UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will work in this release.)
* **16.4**: Enable deprecation warning for `componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will work in this release.)
* **17.0**: Remove `componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate` . (Only the new "UNSAFE_" lifecycle names will work in this release.)

In this post, we will explore some of the potential capabilities of async rendering, and we'll outline a migration plan for components that rely on these legacy lifecycles.

## What can asynchronous rendering do?

#### With every new version, our goal is to make it easier for developers using React to build great user experiences

We have been fine-tuning the performance of React with every new release. However, despite what synthetic benchmarks say, we've found that the bottleneck in real-world apps is generally not React itself, but the application code that uses it. In order to unlock the next wave of performance optimizations and new features, we need React to be smarter about when to re-render components and flush updates to the screen.

> Note
>
> React already has some optimizations in this regard. For example, React batches state updates so that if you call `setState` multiple times in quick succession, it only renders once.

We found that asynchronous rendering can help in several ways. For example:

1. As users navigate within an app, newly displayed components often have asynchronous dependencies (including data, images, and code splitting). This leads to a lot of boilerplate code managing data fetching and displaying the loading states. It can also lead to a "cascade of spinners" as the data loads, causing DOM reflows and janky user experience. We'd like to make it easier for product developers to express asynchronous dependencies and to wait to show a component until all of its data has been loaded. React could keep the old UI "alive" and interactive for a certain period while the updated UI is not ready yet, and provide a declarative way to show a loading indicator if it takes more than a second.
2. Fast updates within a short timeframe often cause jank because React processes each update individually. We'd like to automatically "combine" updates within a few hundred milliseconds when possible so that there is less re-rendering.
3. Some updates are inherently less important than others. For example, if you're writing a [live-updating search filter input](https://zeit.co/blog/domains-search-web#asynchronous-rendering), it is essential that the input is updated immediately (within a few milliseconds). Re-rendering the result list can be done later, and should not block the thread or cause stutter when typing. It would be nice if React had a way to mark the latter updates as having a lower priority. (Note that even debouncing the input doesn't help because if the rendering is synchronous (like in React today)—a keystroke can't interrupt the rendering once it has started. Asynchronous rendering solves this by splitting rendering into small chunks that can be paused and later resumed.)
4. For UI elements like hidden popups and tabs, we'd like to be able to start pre-rendering their content when the browser isn't busy. This way, they can appear instantaneously in response to a later user interaction. However, we'd like to do this only [when the browser is idle](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/08/using-requestidlecallback) to avoid slowing down other parts of the page.

Of course, it's possible to implement some of these features today, but it's difficult. We hope to make them effortless by building them into React itself. By replacing problematic lifecycles with safer alternatives, we also hope to make it simple to write async-safe React components.

In the next section, we'll look at how to update your existing components to prepare for the upcoming lifecycle changes.

## Updating class components

#### If you're an application developer, **you don't have to do anything about the legacy methods yet**. The primary purpose of the upcoming version 16.3 is to enable open source project maintainers to update their libraries in advance of any deprecation warnings. Those warnings will be enabled with the next minor release, version 16.4.

However, if you'd like to start using the new component API (or if you're a maintainer looking to update your library in advance) here are a few examples that we hope will help you to start thinking about components a bit differently. Over time, we plan to add additional "recipes" to our documentation that show how to perform common tasks in a way that avoids the problematic lifecycles.

---

Before we begin, here's a quick reminder of the lifecyle changes in version 16.3:
* We are adding the following lifecycle aliases: `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, `UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps`, and `UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate`. (Both the old lifecycle names and the new aliases will be supported.)
* We are introducinc a new, static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`:

```js
static getDerivedStateFromProps(
  nextProps: Props,
  prevState: State
): $Shape<State> | null
```

This new lifecycle is invoked after a component is instantiated and when it receives new props. It should return an object to update `state`, or `null` to indicate that the new `props` do not require any `state` updates.

---

Now let's take a look at some examples.

### Initializing state

This example shows a component with `setState` calls inside of `componentWillMount`:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/initializing-state-before.js`

The simplest refactor for this type of component is to move state initialization to the constructor or to a property initializer, like so:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/initializing-state-after.js`

### Fetching external data

Here is an example of a component that uses `componentWillMount` to fetch external data:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/fetching-external-data-before.js`

The above code is problematic for both server rendering (where the external data won't be used) and the upcoming async rendering mode (where the request might be initiated multiple times).

The recommended upgrade path for most use cases is to move data-fetching into `componentDidMount`:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/fetching-external-data-after.js`

There is a common misconception that fetching in `componentWillMount` lets you avoid the first empty rendering state. In practice this was never true because React has always executed `render` immediately after `componentWillMount`. If the data is not available by the time `componentWillMount` fires, the first `render` will still show a loading state regardless of where you initiate the fetch. This is why moving the fetch to `componentDidMount` has no perceptible effect in the vast majority of cases.

> Note
>
> Some advanced use-cases (e.g. libraries like Relay) may want to experiment with eagerly prefetching async data. An example of how this can be done is available [here](https://gist.github.com/bvaughn/89700e525ff423a75ffb63b1b1e30a8f).

### Adding event listeners (or subscriptions)

Here is an example of a component that subscribes to an external event dispatcher when mounting:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/adding-event-listeners-before.js`

Unfortunately, this can cause memory leaks for server rendering (where `componentWillUnmount` will never be called) and async rendering (where rendering might be interrupted before it completes, causing `componentWillUnmount` not to be called).

People often assume that `componentWillMount` and `componentWillUnmount` are always paired, but that is not guaranteed. Only once `componentDidMount` has been called does React guarantee that `componentWillUnmount` will later be called for clean up.

For this reason, the recommended way to add listeners/subscriptions is to use the `componentDidMount` lifecycle:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/adding-event-listeners-after.js`

> Note
>
> Although the pattern above is slightly more verbose, it has an added benefit of deferring the subscription creation until after the component has rendered, reducing the amount of time in the critical render path. In the near future, React may include more tools to reduce code complexity for data fetching cases like this.

> Note
>
> Sometimes it is important to update subscriptions in response to property changes. If you're using a library like Redux or MobX, the library's container component should handle this for you. If you're authoring such a library, we suggest using a technique like [the one shown here](https://gist.github.com/bvaughn/d569177d70b50b58bff69c3c4a5353f3).

### Updating `state` based on `props`

Here is an example of a component that uses the legacy `componentWillReceiveProps` lifecycle to update `state` based on new `props` values:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-state-from-props-before.js`

Although the above code is not problematic in itself, the `componentWillReceiveProps` lifecycle is often mis-used in ways that _do_ present problems. Because of this, the method has been deprecated.

As of version 16.3, the recommended way to update `state` in response to `props` changes is with the new `static getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle. (That lifecycle is called when a component is created and each time it receives new props.):
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-state-from-props-after.js`

> Note
>
> The [`react-lifecycles-compat`](https://github.com/reactjs/react-lifecycles-compat) polyfill enables this new lifecycle to be used with older versions of React as well. [Learn more about how to use it below.](http://localhost:8000/blog/2018/02/07/update-on-async-rendering.html#open-source-project-maintainers)

### Invoking external callbacks

Here is an example of a component that calls an external function when its internal state changes:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/invoking-external-callbacks-before.js`

Sometimes people use `componentWillUpdate` out of a misplaced fear that by the time `componentDidUpdate` fires, it is "too late" to update the state of other components. This is not the case. React ensures that any `setState` calls that happen during `componentDidMount` and `componentDidUpdate` are flushed before the user sees the updated UI. In general, it is better to avoid cascading updates like this, but in some cases they are necessary (for example, if you need to position a tooltip after measuring the rendered DOM element).

Either way, it is unsafe to use `componentWillUpdate` for this purpose in async mode, because the external callback might get called multiple times for a single update. Instead, the `componentDidUpdate` lifecycle should be used since it is guaranteed to be invoked only once per update:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/invoking-external-callbacks-after.js`

### Updating external data when `props` change

Here is an example of a component that fetches external data based on `props` values:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-external-data-when-props-change-before.js`

The recommended upgrade path for this component is to move data-updates into `componentDidUpdate`. You can also use the new `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle to clear stale data before rendering the new props:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/updating-external-data-when-props-change-after.js`

> Note
>
> If you're using an HTTP library that supports cancellation, like [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios), then it's simple to cancel an in-progress request when unmounting. For native Promises, you can use an approach like [the one shown here](https://gist.github.com/bvaughn/982ab689a41097237f6e9860db7ca8d6).

## Other scenarios

While we tried to cover the most common use cases in this post, we recognize that we might have missed some of them. If you are using `componentWillMount`, `componentWillUpdate`, or `componentWillReceiveProps` in ways that aren't covered by this blog post, and aren't sure how to migrate off these legacy lifecycles, please [file a new issue against our documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org/issues/new) with your code examples and as much background information as you can provide. We will update this document with new alternative patterns as they come up.

## Open source project maintainers

Open source maintainers might be wondering what these changes mean for shared components. If you implement the above suggestions, what happens with components that depend on the new static `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle? Do you also have to release a new major version and drop compatibility for React 16.2 and older?

Fortunately, you do not!

In support of version 16.3, we've also created a new NPM package, [`react-lifecycles-compat`](https://github.com/reactjs/react-lifecycles-compat). This package polyfills components so that the new `getDerivedStateFromProps` lifecycle will also work with older versions of React (0.14.9+).

To use this polyfill, first add it as a dependency to your library:

```bash
# Yarn
yarn add react-lifecycles-compat

# NPM
npm install react-lifecycles-compat --save
```

Next, update your components to use the new static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`, as described above.

Lastly, use the polyfill to make your component backwards compatible with older versions of React:
`embed:update-on-async-rendering/using-react-lifecycles-compat.js`
