content/blog/2018-03-20-react-v-16-3.md, before:

---
title: "React v16.3.0: New lifecycles and context"
author: [bvaughn]
---

This release includes a new class component lifecycle (`getDerivedStateFromProps`), a new `StrictMode` component, an official context API, and a new ergonomic ref API!

For the past few months, the React team has been working on support for [asynchronous rendering](/blog/2018/03/01/sneak-peek-beyond-react-16.html). We are excited about the new features it will enable.

We've also learned that some long-term changes will be required to the way we write React components. However, we respect semver and **will not ship breaking changes in a minor version**!

Read on to learn more about the release.

## Official Context API

For many years, React has offered an experimental API for context. Although it was a powerful tool, its use was discouraged because of inherent problems in the API, and because we always intended to replace the experimental API with a better one.

Version 16.3 introduces a new context API that is more efficient and supports both static type checking and deep updates.

> **Note**
>
> The old context API will keep working for all React 16.x releases, so you will have time to migrate.

Here is an example illustrating how you might inject a "theme" using the new context API:
`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/context-example.js`

[Learn more about the new context API here.](/docs/context.html#api)

## `createRef` API

Previously, React provided two ways for managing refs: the legacy string ref API and the callback API. Although the string ref API was the more convenient of the two, it had [several downsides](https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/1373) and so our official recomendation was to use the callback form instead.

Version 16.3 adds a new option for managing refs that offers the convenience of a string ref without any of the downsides:
`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/create-ref-example.js`

> **Note:**
>
> Callback refs will continue to be supported in addition to the new `createRef` API.
>
> You don't need to replace callback refs in your components. They are slightly more flexible, so they will remain as an advanced feature.

[Learn more about the new `createRef` API here.](/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html)

## Component Lifecycle Changes

React's class component API has been around for years with little change. However, as we add support for more advanced features (such as [error boundaries](/docs/react-component.html#componentdidcatch) and the upcoming [async rendering mode](/blog/2018/03/01/sneak-peek-beyond-react-16.html)) we stretch this model in ways that it was not originally intended.

For example, with the current API, it is too easy to block the initial render with non-essential logic. In part this is because there are too many ways to accomplish a given task, and it can be unclear which is best. We've observed that the interrupting behavior of error handling is often not taken into consideration and can result in memory leaks (something that will also impact the upcoming async rendering mode). The current class component API also complicates other efforts, like our work on [prototyping a React compiler](https://twitter.com/trueadm/status/944908776896978946).

Many of these issues are exacerbated by a subset of the component lifecycles (`componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate`). These also happen to be the lifecycles that cause the most confusion within the React community. For these reasons, we are going to deprecate those methods in favor of better alternatives.

We recognize that this change will impact many existing components. (At Facebook, we maintain more than 50,000 React components, and we can't tell our engineers to rewrite them either.) Because of this, the migration path will be as gradual as possible, and will provide escape hatches.

> **Note:**
>
> Deprecation warnings will be enabled in version 16.4, **but the legacy lifecycles will continue to work until version 17**.
>
> Even in version 17, it will still be possible to use them, but they will be aliased with an "UNSAFE_" prefix to indicate that they might cause issues. We have also prepared an [automated script to rename them](https://github.com/reactjs/react-codemod#rename-unsafe-lifecycles) in existing code.

We are also adding a new static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`, as a safer alternative to the legacy `componentWillReceiveProps`.

[Learn more about these lifecycle changes here.](#TODO)

## `StrictMode` Component

`StrictMode` is a tool for highlighting potential problems in an application. Like `Fragment`, `StrictMode` does not render any visible UI. It activates additional checks and warnings for its descendants.

> **Note:**
>
> `StrictMode` checks are run in development mode only; _they do not impact the production build_.

Although it is not possible for strict mode to catch all problems (e.g. certain types of mutation), it can help with many. If you see warnings in strict mode, those things will likely cause bugs for async rendering.

In version 16.3, `StrictMode` helps with:
* Identifying components with unsafe lifecycles
* Warning about legacy string ref API usage
* Detecting unexpected side effects

Additional functionality will be added with future releases of React.

[Learn more about the `StrictMode` component here.](/docs/strict-mode.html)

Commit message:

Added React.forwardRef to 16.3 release blog post

content/blog/2018-03-20-react-v-16-3.md, after:

---
title: "React v16.3.0: New lifecycles and context API"
author: [bvaughn]
---

This release includes a new class component lifecycle (`getDerivedStateFromProps`), a new `StrictMode` component, an official context API, a new ergonomic ref API, and a ref-forwarding API!

For the past few months, the React team has been working on support for [asynchronous rendering](/blog/2018/03/01/sneak-peek-beyond-react-16.html). We are excited about the new features it will enable.

We've also learned that some long-term changes will be required to the way we write React components. However, we respect semver and **will not ship breaking changes in a minor version**!

Read on to learn more about the release.

## Official Context API

For many years, React has offered an experimental API for context. Although it was a powerful tool, its use was discouraged because of inherent problems in the API, and because we always intended to replace the experimental API with a better one.

Version 16.3 introduces a new context API that is more efficient and supports both static type checking and deep updates.

> **Note**
>
> The old context API will keep working for all React 16.x releases, so you will have time to migrate.

Here is an example illustrating how you might inject a "theme" using the new context API:
`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/context-example.js`

[Learn more about the new context API here.](/docs/context.html#api)

## `createRef` API

Previously, React provided two ways for managing refs: the legacy string ref API and the callback API. Although the string ref API was the more convenient of the two, it had [several downsides](https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/1373) and so our official recomendation was to use the callback form instead.

Version 16.3 adds a new option for managing refs that offers the convenience of a string ref without any of the downsides:
`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/create-ref-example.js`

> **Note:**
>
> Callback refs will continue to be supported in addition to the new `createRef` API.
>
> You don't need to replace callback refs in your components. They are slightly more flexible, so they will remain as an advanced feature.

[Learn more about the new `createRef` API here.](/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html)

## `forwardRef` API

[Higher-order components](/docs/higher-order-components.html) (or HOCs) are a common way to reuse code between components. Building on the theme context example from above, we might create an HOC that injects the current "theme" as a prop:

`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/hoc-theme-example.js`

We can use the above HOC to wire components up to the theme context without having to use `ThemeContext` directly. For example:

`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/fancy-button-example.js`

HOCs typically [pass props through](/docs/higher-order-components.html#convention-pass-unrelated-props-through-to-the-wrapped-component) to the components they wrap. Unfortunately, [refs are not passed through](/docs/higher-order-components.html#refs-arent-passed-through). This means that we can't attach a ref to `FancyButton` if we use `FancyThemedButton`- so there's no way for us to call `focus()`.

The new `forwardRef` API solves this problem by providing a way for us to intercept a `ref` and forward it as a normal prop:
`embed:16-3-release-blog-post/forward-ref-example.js`

## Component Lifecycle Changes

React's class component API has been around for years with little change. However, as we add support for more advanced features (such as [error boundaries](/docs/react-component.html#componentdidcatch) and the upcoming [async rendering mode](/blog/2018/03/01/sneak-peek-beyond-react-16.html)) we stretch this model in ways that it was not originally intended.

For example, with the current API, it is too easy to block the initial render with non-essential logic. In part this is because there are too many ways to accomplish a given task, and it can be unclear which is best. We've observed that the interrupting behavior of error handling is often not taken into consideration and can result in memory leaks (something that will also impact the upcoming async rendering mode). The current class component API also complicates other efforts, like our work on [prototyping a React compiler](https://twitter.com/trueadm/status/944908776896978946).

Many of these issues are exacerbated by a subset of the component lifecycles (`componentWillMount`, `componentWillReceiveProps`, and `componentWillUpdate`). These also happen to be the lifecycles that cause the most confusion within the React community. For these reasons, we are going to deprecate those methods in favor of better alternatives.

We recognize that this change will impact many existing components. (At Facebook, we maintain more than 50,000 React components, and we can't tell our engineers to rewrite them either.) Because of this, the migration path will be as gradual as possible, and will provide escape hatches.

> **Note:**
>
> Deprecation warnings will be enabled in version 16.4, **but the legacy lifecycles will continue to work until version 17**.
>
> Even in version 17, it will still be possible to use them, but they will be aliased with an "UNSAFE_" prefix to indicate that they might cause issues. We have also prepared an [automated script to rename them](https://github.com/reactjs/react-codemod#rename-unsafe-lifecycles) in existing code.

We are also adding a new static lifecycle, `getDerivedStateFromProps`, as a safer alternative to the legacy `componentWillReceiveProps`.

[Learn more about these lifecycle changes here.](#TODO)

## `StrictMode` Component

`StrictMode` is a tool for highlighting potential problems in an application. Like `Fragment`, `StrictMode` does not render any visible UI. It activates additional checks and warnings for its descendants.

> **Note:**
>
> `StrictMode` checks are run in development mode only; _they do not impact the production build_.

Although it is not possible for strict mode to catch all problems (e.g. certain types of mutation), it can help with many. If you see warnings in strict mode, those things will likely cause bugs for async rendering.

In version 16.3, `StrictMode` helps with:
* Identifying components with unsafe lifecycles
* Warning about legacy string ref API usage
* Detecting unexpected side effects

Additional functionality will be added with future releases of React.

[Learn more about the `StrictMode` component here.](/docs/strict-mode.html)
