content/blog/2019-02-04-react-v16.8.0.md, before:

---
title: "React v16.8: The One With Hooks"
author: [gaearon]
---

With React 16.8, [React Hooks](/docs/hooks-intro.html) are available in a stable release!

## What Are Hooks?

Hooks let you use state and other React features without writing a class. You can also **build your own Hooks** to share reusable stateful logic between components.

If you've never heard of Hooks before, you might find these resources interesting:

* [Introducing Hooks](/docs/hooks-intro.html) explains why we're adding Hooks to React.
* [Hooks at a Glance](/docs/hooks-overview.html) is a fast-paced overview of the built-in Hooks.
* [Building Your Own Hooks](/docs/hooks-custom.html) demonstrates code reuse with custom Hooks.
* [Making Sense of React Hooks](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/making-sense-of-react-hooks-fdbde8803889) explores the new possibilities unlocked by Hooks.
* [useHooks.com](https://usehooks.com/) showcases community-maintained Hooks recipes and demos.

**You don't have to learn Hooks right now.** Hooks have no breaking changes, and we have no plans to remove classes from React. The [Hooks FAQ](/docs/hooks-faq.html) describes the gradual adoption strategy.

## No Big Rewrites

We don't recommend rewriting your existing applications to use Hooks overnight. Instead, try using Hooks in some of the new components, and let us know what you think. Code using Hooks will work [side by side](/docs/hooks-intro.html#gradual-adoption-strategy) with existing code using classes.

## Can I Use Hooks Today?

Yes! Starting with 16.8.0, React includes a stable implementation of React Hooks for:

* React DOM
* React DOM Server
* React Test Renderer
* React Shallow Renderer

Note that **to enable Hooks, all React packages need to be 16.8.0 or higher**. Hooks won't work if you forget to update, for example, React DOM.

**React Native will support Hooks in the [0.60 release](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-releases/issues/79#issuecomment-457735214).**

## Tooling Support

React Hooks are now supported by React DevTools. They are also supported in the latest Flow and TypeScript definitions for React. We strongly recommend enabling a new [lint rule called `eslint-plugin-react-hooks`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-react-hooks) to enforce best practices with Hooks. It will soon be included into Create React App by default.

## What's Next

We described our plan for the next months in the recently published [React Roadmap](/blog/2018/11/27/react-16-roadmap.html).

Note that React Hooks don't cover *all* use cases for classes yet but they're [very close](/docs/hooks-faq.html#do-hooks-cover-all-use-cases-for-classes). Currently, only `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate()` and `componentDidCatch()` methods don't have equivalent Hooks APIs, and these lifecycles are relatively uncommon. If you want, you should be able to use Hooks in most of the new code you're writing.

Even while Hooks were in alpha, we saw many [interesting examples](https://medium.com/@drcmda/hooks-in-react-spring-a-tutorial-c6c436ad7ee4) of custom Hooks for animations, forms, subscriptions, integrating with other libraries, and so on. We're excited about Hooks because they make code reuse easier, helping you write your components in a simpler way and make great user experiences. We can't wait to see what you'll create next!

## Thanks

We'd like to thank everybody who commented on the [Hooks RFC](https://github.com/reactjs/rfcs/pull/68) for sharing their feedback. We've read all of your comments and made some adjustments to the final API based on them.

## Installation

### React

React v16.8.0 is available on the npm registry.

To install React 16 with Yarn, run:

```bash
yarn add react@^16.8.0 react-dom@^16.8.0
```

To install React 16 with npm, run:

```bash
npm install --save react@^16.8.0 react-dom@^16.8.0
```

We also provide UMD builds of React via a CDN:

```html
<script crossorigin src="https://unpkg.com/react@16/umd/react.production.min.js"></script>
<script crossorigin src="https://unpkg.com/react-dom@16/umd/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
```

Refer to the documentation for [detailed installation instructions](/docs/installation.html).

### ESLint Plugin for React Hooks

>Note
>
>As mentioned above, we strongly recommend using the `eslint-plugin-react-hooks` lint rule.
>
>If you're using Create React App, instead of manually configuring ESLint you can wait for the next version of `react-scripts` which will come out shortly and will include this rule.

Assuming you already have ESLint installed, run:

```sh
# npm
npm install eslint-plugin-react-hooks@next --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add eslint-plugin-react-hooks@next --dev
```

Then add it to your ESLint configuration:

```js
{
  "plugins": [
    // ...
    "react-hooks"
  ],
  "rules": {
    // ...
    "react-hooks/rules-of-hooks": "error"
  }
}
```

## Changelog

### React

* Add [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) — a way to use state and other React features without writing a class. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) et al. in [#13968](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/13968))
* Improve the `useReducer` Hook lazy initialization API. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14723](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14723))

### React DOM

* Bail out of rendering on identical values for `useState` and `useReducer` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14569](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14569))
* Don’t compare the first argument passed to `useEffect`/`useMemo`/`useCallback` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14594](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14594))
* Use `Object.is` algorithm for comparing `useState` and `useReducer` values. ([@Jessidhia](https://github.com/Jessidhia) in [#14752](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14752))
* Support synchronous thenables passed to `React.lazy()`. ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14626](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14626))
* Render components with Hooks twice in Strict Mode (DEV-only) to match class behavior. ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14654](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14654))
* Warn about mismatching Hook order in development. ([@threepointone](https://github.com/threepointone) in [#14585](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14585) and [@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14591](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14591))


### React Test Renderer

* Support Hooks in the shallow renderer. ([@trueadm](https://github.com/trueadm) in [#14567](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14567))
* Fix wrong state in `shouldComponentUpdate` in the presence of `getDerivedStateFromProps` for Shallow Renderer. ([@chenesan](https://github.com/chenesan) in [#14613](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14613))

### ESLint Plugin: React Hooks

* Initial [release](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-react-hooks). ([@calebmer](https://github.com/calebmer) in [#13968](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/13968))
* Fix reporting after encountering a loop. ([@calebmer](https://github.com/calebmer) and [@Yurickh](https://github.com/Yurickh) in [#14661](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14661))
* Don't consider throwing to be a rule violation. ([@sophiebits](https://github.com/sophiebits) in [#14040](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14040))

## Hooks Changelog Since Alpha Versions

The above changelog contains all notable changes since our last **stable** release (16.7.0). [As with all our minor releases](/docs/faq-versioning.html), none of the changes break backwards compatibility.

If you're currently using Hooks from an alpha build of React, note that this release does contain some small breaking changes to Hooks. **We don't recommend depending on alphas in production code.** We publish them so we can make changes in response to community feedback before the API is stable.

Here are all breaking changes to Hooks that have been made since the first alpha release:

* Remove `useMutationEffect`. ([@sophiebits](https://github.com/sophiebits) in [#14336](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14336))
* Rename `useImperativeMethods` to `useImperativeHandle`. ([@threepointone](https://github.com/threepointone) in [#14565](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14565))
* Bail out of rendering on identical values for `useState` and `useReducer` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14569](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14569))
* Don’t compare the first argument passed to `useEffect`/`useMemo`/`useCallback` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14594](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14594))
* Use `Object.is` algorithm for comparing `useState` and `useReducer` values. ([@Jessidhia](https://github.com/Jessidhia) in [#14752](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14752))
* Render components with Hooks twice in Strict Mode (DEV-only). ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14654](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14654))
* Improve the `useReducer` Hook lazy initialization API. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14723](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14723))

Commit message:

Point to codesandbox and usehooks as community examples

content/blog/2019-02-04-react-v16.8.0.md, after:

---
title: "React v16.8: The One With Hooks"
author: [gaearon]
---

With React 16.8, [React Hooks](/docs/hooks-intro.html) are available in a stable release!

## What Are Hooks?

Hooks let you use state and other React features without writing a class. You can also **build your own Hooks** to share reusable stateful logic between components.

If you've never heard of Hooks before, you might find these resources interesting:

* [Introducing Hooks](/docs/hooks-intro.html) explains why we're adding Hooks to React.
* [Hooks at a Glance](/docs/hooks-overview.html) is a fast-paced overview of the built-in Hooks.
* [Building Your Own Hooks](/docs/hooks-custom.html) demonstrates code reuse with custom Hooks.
* [Making Sense of React Hooks](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/making-sense-of-react-hooks-fdbde8803889) explores the new possibilities unlocked by Hooks.
* [useHooks.com](https://usehooks.com/) showcases community-maintained Hooks recipes and demos.

**You don't have to learn Hooks right now.** Hooks have no breaking changes, and we have no plans to remove classes from React. The [Hooks FAQ](/docs/hooks-faq.html) describes the gradual adoption strategy.

## No Big Rewrites

We don't recommend rewriting your existing applications to use Hooks overnight. Instead, try using Hooks in some of the new components, and let us know what you think. Code using Hooks will work [side by side](/docs/hooks-intro.html#gradual-adoption-strategy) with existing code using classes.

## Can I Use Hooks Today?

Yes! Starting with 16.8.0, React includes a stable implementation of React Hooks for:

* React DOM
* React DOM Server
* React Test Renderer
* React Shallow Renderer

Note that **to enable Hooks, all React packages need to be 16.8.0 or higher**. Hooks won't work if you forget to update, for example, React DOM.

**React Native will support Hooks in the [0.60 release](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-releases/issues/79#issuecomment-457735214).**

## Tooling Support

React Hooks are now supported by React DevTools. They are also supported in the latest Flow and TypeScript definitions for React. We strongly recommend enabling a new [lint rule called `eslint-plugin-react-hooks`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-react-hooks) to enforce best practices with Hooks. It will soon be included into Create React App by default.

## What's Next

We described our plan for the next months in the recently published [React Roadmap](/blog/2018/11/27/react-16-roadmap.html).

Note that React Hooks don't cover *all* use cases for classes yet but they're [very close](/docs/hooks-faq.html#do-hooks-cover-all-use-cases-for-classes). Currently, only `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate()` and `componentDidCatch()` methods don't have equivalent Hooks APIs, and these lifecycles are relatively uncommon. If you want, you should be able to use Hooks in most of the new code you're writing.

Even while Hooks were in alpha, the React community created many interesting [examples](https://codesandbox.io/react-hooks) and [recipes](https://usehooks.com) using Hooks for animations, forms, subscriptions, integrating with other libraries, and so on. We're excited about Hooks because they make code reuse easier, helping you write your components in a simpler way and make great user experiences. We can't wait to see what you'll create next!

## Thanks

We'd like to thank everybody who commented on the [Hooks RFC](https://github.com/reactjs/rfcs/pull/68) for sharing their feedback. We've read all of your comments and made some adjustments to the final API based on them.

## Installation

### React

React v16.8.0 is available on the npm registry.

To install React 16 with Yarn, run:

```bash
yarn add react@^16.8.0 react-dom@^16.8.0
```

To install React 16 with npm, run:

```bash
npm install --save react@^16.8.0 react-dom@^16.8.0
```

We also provide UMD builds of React via a CDN:

```html
<script crossorigin src="https://unpkg.com/react@16/umd/react.production.min.js"></script>
<script crossorigin src="https://unpkg.com/react-dom@16/umd/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
```

Refer to the documentation for [detailed installation instructions](/docs/installation.html).

### ESLint Plugin for React Hooks

>Note
>
>As mentioned above, we strongly recommend using the `eslint-plugin-react-hooks` lint rule.
>
>If you're using Create React App, instead of manually configuring ESLint you can wait for the next version of `react-scripts` which will come out shortly and will include this rule.

Assuming you already have ESLint installed, run:

```sh
# npm
npm install eslint-plugin-react-hooks@next --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add eslint-plugin-react-hooks@next --dev
```

Then add it to your ESLint configuration:

```js
{
  "plugins": [
    // ...
    "react-hooks"
  ],
  "rules": {
    // ...
    "react-hooks/rules-of-hooks": "error"
  }
}
```

## Changelog

### React

* Add [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) — a way to use state and other React features without writing a class. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) et al. in [#13968](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/13968))
* Improve the `useReducer` Hook lazy initialization API. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14723](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14723))

### React DOM

* Bail out of rendering on identical values for `useState` and `useReducer` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14569](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14569))
* Don’t compare the first argument passed to `useEffect`/`useMemo`/`useCallback` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14594](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14594))
* Use `Object.is` algorithm for comparing `useState` and `useReducer` values. ([@Jessidhia](https://github.com/Jessidhia) in [#14752](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14752))
* Support synchronous thenables passed to `React.lazy()`. ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14626](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14626))
* Render components with Hooks twice in Strict Mode (DEV-only) to match class behavior. ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14654](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14654))
* Warn about mismatching Hook order in development. ([@threepointone](https://github.com/threepointone) in [#14585](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14585) and [@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14591](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14591))


### React Test Renderer

* Support Hooks in the shallow renderer. ([@trueadm](https://github.com/trueadm) in [#14567](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14567))
* Fix wrong state in `shouldComponentUpdate` in the presence of `getDerivedStateFromProps` for Shallow Renderer. ([@chenesan](https://github.com/chenesan) in [#14613](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14613))

### ESLint Plugin: React Hooks

* Initial [release](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-react-hooks). ([@calebmer](https://github.com/calebmer) in [#13968](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/13968))
* Fix reporting after encountering a loop. ([@calebmer](https://github.com/calebmer) and [@Yurickh](https://github.com/Yurickh) in [#14661](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14661))
* Don't consider throwing to be a rule violation. ([@sophiebits](https://github.com/sophiebits) in [#14040](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14040))

## Hooks Changelog Since Alpha Versions

The above changelog contains all notable changes since our last **stable** release (16.7.0). [As with all our minor releases](/docs/faq-versioning.html), none of the changes break backwards compatibility.

If you're currently using Hooks from an alpha build of React, note that this release does contain some small breaking changes to Hooks. **We don't recommend depending on alphas in production code.** We publish them so we can make changes in response to community feedback before the API is stable.

Here are all breaking changes to Hooks that have been made since the first alpha release:

* Remove `useMutationEffect`. ([@sophiebits](https://github.com/sophiebits) in [#14336](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14336))
* Rename `useImperativeMethods` to `useImperativeHandle`. ([@threepointone](https://github.com/threepointone) in [#14565](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14565))
* Bail out of rendering on identical values for `useState` and `useReducer` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14569](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14569))
* Don’t compare the first argument passed to `useEffect`/`useMemo`/`useCallback` Hooks. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14594](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14594))
* Use `Object.is` algorithm for comparing `useState` and `useReducer` values. ([@Jessidhia](https://github.com/Jessidhia) in [#14752](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14752))
* Render components with Hooks twice in Strict Mode (DEV-only). ([@gaearon](https://github.com/gaearon) in [#14654](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14654))
* Improve the `useReducer` Hook lazy initialization API. ([@acdlite](https://github.com/acdlite) in [#14723](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/14723))
