content/docs/hello-world.md, before:

---
id: hello-world
title: Hello World
permalink: docs/hello-world.html
prev: cdn-links.html
next: introducing-jsx.html
redirect_from:
  - "docs/"
  - "docs/index.html"
  - "docs/getting-started.html"
  - "docs/getting-started-ko-KR.html"
  - "docs/getting-started-zh-CN.html"
---

The easiest way to get started with React is to use [this Hello World example code on CodePen](codepen://hello-world). You don't need to install anything; you can just open it in another tab and follow along as we go through examples. If you'd rather use a local development environment, check out the [Installation](/docs/try-react.html) section.

The smallest React example looks like this:

```js
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

It renders a heading saying "Hello, world!" on the page.

The next few sections will gradually introduce you to using React. We will examine the building blocks of React apps: elements and components. Once you master them, you can create complex apps from small reusable pieces.

## A Note on JavaScript

React is a JavaScript library, and so we'll assume you have a basic understanding of the JavaScript language. If you don't feel very confident, we recommend [refreshing your JavaScript knowledge](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript) so you can follow along more easily.

We also use some of the ES6 syntax in the examples. We try to use it sparingly because it's still relatively new, but we encourage you to get familiar with [arrow functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions), [classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes), [template literals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals), [`let`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/let), and [`const`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const) statements. You can use the [Babel REPL](babel://es5-syntax-example) to check what ES6 code compiles to.

Commit message:

NOtes and ideas for hello-world.md file.
  - you can _just_ open it in 
- It _renders_ a heading saying “Hello, world!” on the page.  - you are using the same  word as the thing you are describing. 
- “A Note on JavaScript”  the title doe snot suggest that you need to read it because you are learning about react ,not JS.  Something like  “React & JavaScript” or something like “Knowledge Level Assumptions”
- “we recommend **refreshing** your JavaScript knowledge so you can follow along more easily.” — refreshing suggest that someone. Already knows JS, so if they don’t know JS they will feel dejected. Try “We highly recommend [going through a Javascript tutorial]() to check your knowledge level.”
- “We also use some of the ES6 syntax”  - **We**  that suggests its a  us vs  the user.  Instead go for “**The documentation** will use some [ES6 Syntax](LINK TO WHAT IS ES6)”

content/docs/hello-world.md, after:

---
id: hello-world
title: Hello World
permalink: docs/hello-world.html
prev: cdn-links.html
next: introducing-jsx.html
redirect_from:
  - "docs/"
  - "docs/index.html"
  - "docs/getting-started.html"
  - "docs/getting-started-ko-KR.html"
  - "docs/getting-started-zh-CN.html"
---

The easiest way to get started with React is to use [this Hello World example code on CodePen](codepen://hello-world). You don't need to install anything; you can open it in another tab and follow along as we go through examples. If you'd rather use a local development environment, check out the [Installation](/docs/try-react.html) section.

The smallest React example looks like this:

```js
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

It displays a heading saying "Hello, world!" on the page.

The next few sections will gradually introduce you to using React. We will examine the building blocks of React apps: elements and components. Once you master them, you can create complex apps from small reusable pieces.

## Knowledge Level Assumptions

React is a JavaScript library, and so we'll assume you have a basic understanding of the JavaScript language. If you don't feel very confident, we recommend [going through a Javascript tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript) to check your knowledge level and enable you to follow along this tutorial more easily.

The tutorial also includes some of the ES6 syntax in the examples. We have try to use it sparingly because it's still relatively new, but we encourage you to get familiar with [arrow functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions), [classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes), [template literals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals), [`let`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/let), and [`const`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const) statements. You can use the [Babel REPL](babel://es5-syntax-example) to check what ES6 code compiles to.
