docs/07-forms.md, before:

---
id: forms
title: Forms
permalink: forms.html
prev: transferring-props.html
next: working-with-the-browser.html
---

Form components such as `<input>`, `<textarea>`, and `<option>` differ from other native components because they can be mutated via user interactions. These components provide interfaces that make it easier to manage forms in response to user interactions.

For information on events on `<form>` see [Form Events](/react/docs/events.html#form-events).

## Interactive Props

Form components support a few props that are affected via user interactions:

* `value`, supported by `<input>` and `<textarea>` components.
* `checked`, supported by `<input>` components of type `checkbox` or `radio`.
* `selected`, supported by `<option>` components.

In HTML, the value of `<textarea>` is set via children. In React, you should use `value` instead.

Form components allow listening for changes by setting a callback to the `onChange` prop. The `onChange` prop works across browsers to fire in response to user interactions when:

* The `value` of `<input>` or `<textarea>` changes.
* The `checked` state of `<input>` changes.
* The `selected` state of `<option>` changes.

Like all DOM events, the `onChange` prop is supported on all native components and can be used to listen to bubbled change events.


## Controlled Components

An `<input>` with `value` set is a *controlled* component. In a controlled `<input>`, the value of the rendered element will always reflect the `value` prop. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" value="Hello!" />;
  }
```

This will render an input that always has a value of `Hello!`. Any user input will have no effect on the rendered element because React has declared the value to be `Hello!`. If you wanted to update the value in response to user input, you could use the `onChange` event:

```javascript
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {value: 'Hello!'};
  },
  handleChange: function(event) {
    this.setState({value: event.target.value});
  },
  render: function() {
    var value = this.state.value;
    return <input type="text" value={value} onChange={this.handleChange} />;
  }
```

In this example, we are simply accepting the newest value provided by the user and updating the `value` prop of the `<input>` component. This pattern makes it easy to implement interfaces that respond to or validate user interactions. For example:

```javascript
  handleChange: function(event) {
    this.setState({value: event.target.value.substr(0, 140)});
  }
```

This would accept user input but truncate the value to the first 140 characters.


## Uncontrolled Components

An `<input>` that does not supply a `value` (or sets it to `null`) is an *uncontrolled* component. In an uncontrolled `<input>`, the value of the rendered element will reflect the user's input. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" />;
  }
```

This will render an input that starts off with an empty value. Any user input will be immediately reflected by the rendered element. If you wanted to listen to updates to the value, you could use the `onChange` event just like you can with controlled components.

If you want to initialize the component with a non-empty value, you can supply a `defaultValue` prop. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" defaultValue="Hello!" />;
  }
```

This example will function much like the **Controlled Components** example above.

Likewise, `<input>` supports `defaultValue` and `<select>` supports `defaultChecked`.


## Advanced Topics


### Why Controlled Components?

Using form components such as `<input>` in React presents a challenge that is absent when writing traditional form HTML. For example, in HTML:

```html
  <input type="text" name="title" value="Untitled" />
```

This renders an input *initialized* with the value, `Untitled`. When the user updates the input, the node's value *property* will change. However, `node.getAttribute('value')` will still return the value used at initialization time, `Untitled`.

Unlike HTML, React components must represent the state of the view at any point in time and not only at initialization time. For example, in React:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" name="title" value="Untitled" />;
  }
```

Since this method describes the view at any point in time, the value of the text input should *always* be `Untitled`.


### Why Textarea Value?

In HTML, the value of `<textarea>` is usually set using its children:

```html
  <!-- counterexample: DO NOT DO THIS! -->
  <textarea name="description">This is the description.</textarea>
```

For HTML, this easily allows developers to supply multiline values. However, since React is JavaScript, we do not have string limitations and can use `\n` if we want newlines. In a world where we have `value` and `defaultValue`, it is ambiguous what role children play. For this reason, you should not use children when setting `<textarea>` values:

```javascript
  <textarea name="description" value="This is a description." />
```

If you *do* decide to use children, they will behave like `defaultValue`.


### Why Select Value?

The selected `<option>` in an HTML `<select>` is normally specified through that option's `selected` attribute. In React, in order to make components easier to manipulate, the following format is adopted instead:

```javascript
  <select value="B">
    <option value="A">Apple</option>
    <option value="B">Banana</option>
    <option value="C">Cranberry</option>
  </select>
```

To make an uncontrolled component, `defaultValue` is used instead.

> Note:
>
> You can pass an array into the `value` attribute, allowing you to select multiple options in a `select` tag: `<select multiple={true} value={['B', 'C']}>`.

Commit message:

document checkbox using click handlers for change events
I hit an issue related to this earlier today. Feels like a short paragraph warning of potential issues would be of benefit.  Discussed with @zpao on IRC, agreed to make PR.

For more info:
* https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/3005#issuecomment-72513965
* https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/c7e4f55eb061b578497ed316d3e9e0dfa7026f46/src/browser/eventPlugins/ChangeEventPlugin.js#L287

docs/07-forms.md, after:

---
id: forms
title: Forms
permalink: forms.html
prev: transferring-props.html
next: working-with-the-browser.html
---

Form components such as `<input>`, `<textarea>`, and `<option>` differ from other native components because they can be mutated via user interactions. These components provide interfaces that make it easier to manage forms in response to user interactions.

For information on events on `<form>` see [Form Events](/react/docs/events.html#form-events).

## Interactive Props

Form components support a few props that are affected via user interactions:

* `value`, supported by `<input>` and `<textarea>` components.
* `checked`, supported by `<input>` components of type `checkbox` or `radio`.
* `selected`, supported by `<option>` components.

In HTML, the value of `<textarea>` is set via children. In React, you should use `value` instead.

Form components allow listening for changes by setting a callback to the `onChange` prop. The `onChange` prop works across browsers to fire in response to user interactions when:

* The `value` of `<input>` or `<textarea>` changes.
* The `checked` state of `<input>` changes.
* The `selected` state of `<option>` changes.

Like all DOM events, the `onChange` prop is supported on all native components and can be used to listen to bubbled change events.


## Controlled Components

An `<input>` with `value` set is a *controlled* component. In a controlled `<input>`, the value of the rendered element will always reflect the `value` prop. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" value="Hello!" />;
  }
```

This will render an input that always has a value of `Hello!`. Any user input will have no effect on the rendered element because React has declared the value to be `Hello!`. If you wanted to update the value in response to user input, you could use the `onChange` event:

```javascript
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {value: 'Hello!'};
  },
  handleChange: function(event) {
    this.setState({value: event.target.value});
  },
  render: function() {
    var value = this.state.value;
    return <input type="text" value={value} onChange={this.handleChange} />;
  }
```

In this example, we are simply accepting the newest value provided by the user and updating the `value` prop of the `<input>` component. This pattern makes it easy to implement interfaces that respond to or validate user interactions. For example:

```javascript
  handleChange: function(event) {
    this.setState({value: event.target.value.substr(0, 140)});
  }
```

This would accept user input but truncate the value to the first 140 characters.

### Potential Issues With Checkboxes and Radio Buttons

Be aware that, in an attempt to normalise change handling for checkbox and radio inputs, React uses a `click` event in place of a `change` event. For the most part this behaves as expected, except when calling `preventDefault` in a `change` handler. `preventDefault` stops the browser from visually updating the input, even if `checked` gets toggled. This can be worked around either by removing the call to `preventDefault`, or putting the toggle of `checked` in a `setTimeout`.


## Uncontrolled Components

An `<input>` that does not supply a `value` (or sets it to `null`) is an *uncontrolled* component. In an uncontrolled `<input>`, the value of the rendered element will reflect the user's input. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" />;
  }
```

This will render an input that starts off with an empty value. Any user input will be immediately reflected by the rendered element. If you wanted to listen to updates to the value, you could use the `onChange` event just like you can with controlled components.

If you want to initialize the component with a non-empty value, you can supply a `defaultValue` prop. For example:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" defaultValue="Hello!" />;
  }
```

This example will function much like the **Controlled Components** example above.

Likewise, `<input>` supports `defaultValue` and `<select>` supports `defaultChecked`.


## Advanced Topics


### Why Controlled Components?

Using form components such as `<input>` in React presents a challenge that is absent when writing traditional form HTML. For example, in HTML:

```html
  <input type="text" name="title" value="Untitled" />
```

This renders an input *initialized* with the value, `Untitled`. When the user updates the input, the node's value *property* will change. However, `node.getAttribute('value')` will still return the value used at initialization time, `Untitled`.

Unlike HTML, React components must represent the state of the view at any point in time and not only at initialization time. For example, in React:

```javascript
  render: function() {
    return <input type="text" name="title" value="Untitled" />;
  }
```

Since this method describes the view at any point in time, the value of the text input should *always* be `Untitled`.


### Why Textarea Value?

In HTML, the value of `<textarea>` is usually set using its children:

```html
  <!-- counterexample: DO NOT DO THIS! -->
  <textarea name="description">This is the description.</textarea>
```

For HTML, this easily allows developers to supply multiline values. However, since React is JavaScript, we do not have string limitations and can use `\n` if we want newlines. In a world where we have `value` and `defaultValue`, it is ambiguous what role children play. For this reason, you should not use children when setting `<textarea>` values:

```javascript
  <textarea name="description" value="This is a description." />
```

If you *do* decide to use children, they will behave like `defaultValue`.


### Why Select Value?

The selected `<option>` in an HTML `<select>` is normally specified through that option's `selected` attribute. In React, in order to make components easier to manipulate, the following format is adopted instead:

```javascript
  <select value="B">
    <option value="A">Apple</option>
    <option value="B">Banana</option>
    <option value="C">Cranberry</option>
  </select>
```

To make an uncontrolled component, `defaultValue` is used instead.

> Note:
>
> You can pass an array into the `value` attribute, allowing you to select multiple options in a `select` tag: `<select multiple={true} value={['B', 'C']}>`.
