docs/conferences.md, before:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
permalink: conferences.html
prev: thinking-in-react.html
next: videos.html
---

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe width="650" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

Commit message:

adds ReactRally & Reactive 2016 + conf locations (#6623)

docs/conferences.md, after:

---
id: conferences
title: Conferences
permalink: conferences.html
prev: thinking-in-react.html
next: videos.html
---

### React.js Conf 2015
January 28 & 29 in Facebook HQ, CA

[Website](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/) - [Schedule](http://conf2015.reactjs.org/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr)

<iframe width="650" height="315" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/KVZ-P-ZI6W4?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS1cbw4qonlQztYV1TAW0sCr" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### ReactEurope 2015
July 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

### Reactive 2015
November 2-4 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactive2015.com/) - [Schedule](https://reactive2015.com/schedule_speakers.html#schedule)

### React.js Conf 2016
February 22 & 23 in San Francisco, CA

[Website](http://conf.reactjs.com/) - [Schedule](http://conf.reactjs.com/schedule.html) - [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb0IAmt7-GS0M8Q95RIc2lOM6nc77q1IY)

### ReactEurope 2016
June 2 & 3 in Paris, France

[Website](http://www.react-europe.org/) - [Schedule](http://www.react-europe.org/#schedule)

### ReactRally 2016
August 25-26 in Salt Lake City, UT

[Website](http://www.reactrally.com/) - [Schedule](http://www.reactrally.com/#/schedule)

### Reactive 2016
October 26-28 in Bratislava, Slovakia

[Website](https://reactiveconf.com/)
